okie dokie Sam I I was asked a question
through Facebook and this question was
should I use a juicer or should I use a
blender I personally think this is a
fabulous question I think even a lot of
the experts in the field failed to
understand the difference between
juicing and blending I think in order to
really understand what juicing can
accomplish you have to understand a
little bit about the human anatomy so
we're going to start their majority of
America's intestinal tracts have adapted
to their environment because most of the
food that we eat tends to create damaged
lining of the intestines so what the
intestines have done is they've created
like a thick coating to surround the
lining of the intestines this is great
because it keeps us from toxic overload
at the same time what a large amount of
people fail to understand is that a lot
of the absorption of nutrients happens
in the lining of the intestines so when
there's a thick coating around the
lining of the intestines a lot of the
nutrition is not getting absorbed
through our foods so when you pull out
an apple eat the apple you expect to get
what's in the Apple but a lot of times
you're not that's just that's how it
works that's a big part of the price for
that we pay for the types of foods that
we've been eating I personally believe
that this malnutrition is a big reason
for disease I think it's actually the
number one cause for disease from the
day you stop absorbing nutrition your
body will only break down now that you
understand how that works a little bit
we can get back to juicing so what
juicing does is it removes the fibers
when it removes the fibers it's also
removing the calories what remains in
the juices of carbohydrates the water
the vitamins and the minerals because
the fibers are removed the liquid
doesn't have to pass all the way through
the digestive tract this means that
rather than losing the nutrients through
digestion we're actually able to absorb
all of the nutrition through the low
part of the stomach now the downside to
that fast absorption is that if your
juice contains a large amount of sugar
from fruit
you're going to be getting those spikes
in your blood sugar and that's not
necessarily a good thing so the primary
benefit from juicing comes from when you
juice large amounts of veggies dark
leafy greens and a little bit of fruit
to mask the taste I would consider
juicing a source from micro nutrients so
those are the vitamins of the minerals
now using a blender to make smoothies on
the other hand serves another unique
purpose by using a blender you've
already made the digestion process so
much easier but because the fibers are
still intact you're still getting the
calories and it also asked a complete
digestion so it's not being absorbed in
the stomach it actually has to pass
through the lining of the intestines so
because of that instance with the
damaged intestines I wouldn't assume
that you're getting the vitamins and
minerals but you are getting a large
part of carbohydrates from the fructose
from the fruit so the real benefit from
smoothies comes from the calories and
the energy fruit is a perfect source for
energy and it's also a great way to make
sure that you're meeting your caloric
needs for the day when the body is
either deficient in glucose or calories
it tends to go towards starvation so
symptoms of starvation range anywhere
from depression lack of motivation food
cravings and lack of sex drive which I
know is something that I've suffered
from in the past also another cool fact
about fruit is fructose doesn't trigger
insulin response so it's also a diabetic
friendly way to get your carbohydrates
more importantly don't cut your carbs
every single cell in the human body
requires glucose from carbohydrates for
energy do not cut your car
or your bills Ombey so if cut your carbs
you're gonna end up being a zombie
welcome the underworld I don't know what
I want to do with life I just don't know
what I want to do with my life I feel so
alone feel like a Robin super so don't
cut your carbs it's important keep your
carbs up to keep your energy up so let's
recap juicy for micronutrients right
vitamins minerals right not so much
sugar you don't want you don't want to
do too much juicing with sugar right
then you got your blending your blending
is for carbohydrates and canopies right
now your micronutrients and
macronutrients of carbohydrates so
choose for health blend for energy my
god